DOC: Start to document interactive figures (#4779)
matplotlib/matplotlib: doc/users/interactive_guide.rst

run the event loop until a key is pressed on stdin.

Matplotlib does not currently do any management of `PyOS_InputHook`
due to the wide range of ways that matplotlib is used.  This
management is left to the code using Matplotlib.  Interactive figures,
even with matplotlib in 'interactive mode', may not work in the
vanilla python repl if an appropriate `PyOS_InputHook` is not
registered.

Input hooks, and helpers to install them, are usually included with
the python bindings for GUI toolkits and may be registered on import.
IPython also ships input hook functions for all of the GUI frameworks
Matplotlib supports which can be installed via ``%matplotlib``.  This
is the recommended method of integrating Matplotlib and a prompt.

IPython / prompt toolkit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With IPython >= 5.0 IPython has changed from using cpython's readline
based prompt to a ``prompt_toolkit`` based prompt.  ``prompt_toolkit``
has the same conceptual input hook, which is feed into pt via the
:meth:`IPython.terminal.interactiveshell.TerminalInteractiveShell.inputhook`
method.  The source for the prompt_toolkit input hooks lives at
:mod:`IPython.terminal.pt_inputhooks`

> .. rubric:: Fotenotes

Reviewer: typo

.. _interactive_figures_and_eventloops:

.. currentmodule:: matplotlib

==================================================
 Interactive Figures and Asynchronous Programming
==================================================

Matplotlib supports rich interactive figures by embedding figures into
a GUI window.  The basic interactions of panning and zooming in as

> Axis to inspect your data is 'baked in' to Matplotlib.  This is

Reviewer: "as Axis"??

user hits the 'z' key, please run this other function".  This allows
users to write reactive, event-driven, programs without having to
delve into the nity-gritty [#f3]_ details of I/O.  The core event loop
is sometimes referred to as "the main loop" and is typically started,
depending on the library, by methods with names like ``_exec``,
``run``, or ``start``.

All GUI frameworks (Qt, Wx, Gtk, tk, OSX, or web) have some method of
capturing user interactions and passing them back to the application
(for example ``Signal`` / ``Slot`` framework in Qt) but the exact
details depend on the toolkit.  Matplotlib has a :ref:`backend
<what-is-a-backend>` for each GUI toolkit we support which use the
toolkit API to bridge the toolkit UI events into Matplotlib events
into Matplotlib's :ref:`event handling system
<event-handling-tutorial>`.  You can then use
`.FigureCanvasBase.mpl_connect` to connect your function to
Matplotlib's event handling system.  This allows you to directly
interact with your data and write GUI toolkit agnostic user
interfaces.

.. _cp_integration:

Command Prompt Integration
==========================

> So far, so good.  We have the REPL (like the IPthon terminal) that

Reviewer: ipython typo

lets us interactively send things code to the interpreter and get
results back.  We also have the GUI toolkit that run an event loop
waiting for user input and let up register functions to be run when
that happens.  However, if we want to do both we have a problem: the
prompt and the GUI event loop are both infinite loops that each think

> *they* are in charge!  In order for both the prompt and the GUI widows

Reviewer: windows

to be responsive we need a method to allow the loops to 'timeshare' :

1. let the GUI main loop block the python process when you want
   interactive windows
2. let the CLI main loop block the python process and intermittently
   run the GUI loop
3. fully embed python in the GUI (but this is basically writing a full
   application)

.. _cp_block_the_prompt:

Blocking the Prompt
-------------------

.. autosummary::
   :template: autosummary.rst
   :nosignatures:

   pyplot.show
   pyplot.pause

   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.start_event_loop
   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.stop_event_loop

The simplest "integration" is to start the GUI event loop in
'blocking' mode and take over the CLI.  While the GUI event loop is
running you can not enter new commands into the prompt (your terminal

> may echo the charters typed into standard in, but they will not be

Reviewer: characters

Reviewer: "standard in" is a bit jargony

sent to the Python interpreter because it is busy running the GUI
event loop), but the figure windows will be responsive.  Once the
event loop is stopped (leaving any still open figure windows
non-responsive) you will be able to use the prompt again.  Re-starting
the event loop will make any open figure responsive again (and will

> process and queued up user interaction).

Reviewer: and -> any

To start the event loop until all open figures are closed use
`.pyplot.show` as ``pyplot.show(block=True)``.  To start the event
loop for a fixed amount of time (in seconds) use `.pyplot.pause`.

If you are not using `.pyplot` you can start and stop the event loops
via `.FigureCanvasBase.start_event_loop` and
`.FigureCanvasBase.stop_event_loop`. However, in most contexts where
you would not be using `.pyplot` you are embedding Matplotlib in a
large GUI application and the GUI event loop should already be running
for the application.

Away from the prompt, this technique can be very useful if you want to
write a script that pauses for user interaction, see
:ref:`interactive_scripts`.

.. _spin_event_loop:

Explicitly spinning the Event Loop

> ----------------------------------

Reviewer: May be nice to give a practical example or two at this point -- usually by the time I reach something like this I just switch to full embedding in a native (qt, in my case) app, so it's not totally clear to me what would be the use case here.

Author: Most of the content that was here got moved down to the scripts section, just moved the whole section down.

(and a `Python interpreter
<https://docs.python.org/3/extending/embedding.html>`__) in a rich
native application.  Matplotlib provides classes for each toolkit
which can be directly embedded in GUI applications (this is how the
built-in windows are implemented!).  See :ref:`user_interfaces` for
more details.

.. _interactive_scripts :

Scripts
=======

.. autosummary::
   :template: autosummary.rst
   :nosignatures:

   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events
   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle

   figure.Figure.ginput
   pyplot.ginput

There are several use-cases for using interactive figures in scripts:

- progress updates as a long running script progresses
- capture user input to steer the script
- streaming updates from a data source

In the first if you only need to collect points in an Axes you can use
`.figure.Figure.ginput` or more generally the tools from
`.blocking_input` the tools will take care of starting and stopping
the event loop for you.  However if you have written some custom event
handling or are using `.widgets` you will need to manually run the GUI
event loop using the methods described :ref:`above <cp_block_the_prompt>`.

> In the second caes, if you have open windows that have pending UI

Reviewer: case

events (mouse clicks, button presses, or draws) you can explicitly
process those events by calling `.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events`.
This will run the GUI event loop until all UI events currently waiting

> have been processed.  The exact behavior is backend-dependent but

Reviewer: is it?  should be be homogenized across backends?

Author: I am hedging here, but I think that where the variation, if there is any, will be is actually the the toolkit level not on our side.

typically events on all figure are processed and only events waiting
to be processed (not those added during processing) will be handled.

For example ::

   import time
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
   import numpy as np
   plt.ion()

   fig, ax = plt.subplots()
   fig.canvas.show()
   th = np.linspace(0, 2*np.pi, 512)

>    ax.set_Lima(-1.5, 1.5)

Reviewer: typo

   ln, = ax.plot(th, np.sin(th))

   def slow_loop(N, ln):
       for j in range(N):
           time.sleep(.1)  # to simulate some work
           ln.figure.canvas.flush_events()

   slow_loop(100, ln)

While this will feel a bit laggy (as we are only processing user input
every 100ms where as 20-30ms is what feels "responsive") it will
respond.

If you make changes to the plot and want it re-rendered you will need
to call `~.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` to request that the canvas be
re-drawn.  This method can be thought of *draw_soon* in analogy to
`asyncio.loop.call_soon`.

We can add this our example above as ::

   def slow_loop(N, ln):
       for j in range(N):
           time.sleep(.1)  # to simulate some work
           if j % 10:
               ln.set_ydata(np.sin(((j // 10) % 5 * th)))
               ln.figure.canvas.draw_idle()

           ln.figure.canvas.flush_events()

   slow_loop(100, ln)

The more frequently you call `.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events` the more
responsive your figure will feel but at the cost of spending more
resource on the visualization and less on your computation.

> The third case you will have to integrate updating the ``Aritist``

Reviewer: typo artist

instances, calling ``draw_idle``, and flushing the GUI event loop with your
data I/O.

.. _stale_artists:

Stale Artists
=============

Artists (as of Matplotlib 1.5) have a **stale** attribute which is
`True` if the internal state of the artist has changed since the last
time it was rendered. By default the stale state is propagated up to
the Artists parents in the draw tree, thus if the color of a `.Line2D`
instance is changed, the `.axes.Axes` and `.figure.Figure` it is
contained in will also be marked as "stale".  Thus, ``fig.stale`` will
report of any artist in the figure has been modified and out of sync
with what is displayed on the screen.  This is intended to be used to
determine if ``draw_idle`` should be called to schedule a re-rendering
of the figure.

Each artist has a `.Artist.stale_callback` attribute which holds a callback
with the signature ::

  def callback(self: Artist, val: bool) -> None:
     ...

which by default is set to a function that forwards the stale state to
the artists parent.   If you wish to suppress a given artist from propagating
set this attribute to None.

`.figure.Figure` instances do not have a containing artist and their

> default callback is `None`.  If you call ``.pyplot.ion` and are not in

Reviewer: markup

event loop (the GUI event loop) with the python input prompt loop.
The hook functions typically exhaust all pending events on the GUI
event queue, run the main loop for a short fixed amount of time, or
run the event loop until a key is pressed on stdin.

Matplotlib does not currently do any management of
:c:var:`PyOS_InputHook` due to the wide range of ways that matplotlib
is used.  This management is left to downstream libraries -- either
user code or the shell.  Interactive figures, even with matplotlib in
'interactive mode', may not work in the vanilla python repl if an
appropriate :c:var:`PyOS_InputHook` is not registered.

Input hooks, and helpers to install them, are usually included with
the python bindings for GUI toolkits and may be registered on import.
IPython also ships input hook functions for all of the GUI frameworks
Matplotlib supports which can be installed via ``%matplotlib``.  This
is the recommended method of integrating Matplotlib and a prompt.

IPython / prompt toolkit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With IPython >= 5.0 IPython has changed from using cpython's readline
based prompt to a ``prompt_toolkit`` based prompt.  ``prompt_toolkit``

> has the same conceptual input hook, which is feed into pt via the

Reviewer: pt = ptk or a typo for "it"?

Author: I thought prompttoolkit appreviated it self 'pt', but I will write it out anyway.

user hits the 'z' key, please run this other function".  This allows
users to write reactive, event-driven, programs without having to
delve into the nitty-gritty [#f3]_ details of I/O.  The core event loop
is sometimes referred to as "the main loop" and is typically started,
depending on the library, by methods with names like ``_exec``,
``run``, or ``start``.

All GUI frameworks (Qt, Wx, Gtk, tk, OSX, or web) have some method of
capturing user interactions and passing them back to the application
(for example ``Signal`` / ``Slot`` framework in Qt) but the exact
details depend on the toolkit.  Matplotlib has a :ref:`backend
<what-is-a-backend>` for each GUI toolkit we support which uses the
toolkit API to bridge the toolkit UI events into Matplotlib's :ref:`event
handling system <event-handling-tutorial>`.  You can then use
`.FigureCanvasBase.mpl_connect` to connect your function to
Matplotlib's event handling system.  This allows you to directly
interact with your data and write GUI toolkit agnostic user
interfaces.

.. _cp_integration:

Command Prompt Integration
==========================

So far, so good.  We have the REPL (like the IPython terminal) that

> lets us interactively send things code to the interpreter and get

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
lets us interactively send code to the interpreter and get
```

In almost all cases, we recommend using
`backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` over
`backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw`.  ``draw`` forces a rendering of
the figure whereas ``draw_idle`` schedules a rendering the next time
the GUI window is going to re-paint the screen.  This improves
performance by only rendering pixels that will be shown on the screen.  If
you want to be sure that the screen is updated as soon as possible do ::

  fig.canvas.draw_idle()
  fig.canvas.flush_events()

Threading
=========

Most GUI frameworks require that all updates to the screen, and hence
their main event loop, run on the main thread.  This makes pushing
periodic updates of a plot to a background thread impossible.
Although it seems backwards, it is typically easier to push your
computations to a background thread and periodically update
the figure on the main thread.

In general Matplotlib is not thread safe.  If you are going to update
`.Artist` objects in one thread and draw from another you should make
sure that you are locking in the critical sections.

Eventloop integration mechanism
===============================

CPython / readline
------------------

> The python capi provides a hook, :c:var:`PyOS_InputHook`, to register a

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Python C API provides a hook, :c:var:`PyOS_InputHook`, to register a
```

function to be run "The function will be called when Python's
interpreter prompt is about to become idle and wait for user input
from the terminal.".  This hook can be used to integrate a second
event loop (the GUI event loop) with the python input prompt loop.
The hook functions typically exhaust all pending events on the GUI
event queue, run the main loop for a short fixed amount of time, or
run the event loop until a key is pressed on stdin.

Matplotlib does not currently do any management of

> :c:var:`PyOS_InputHook` due to the wide range of ways that matplotlib

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:c:var:`PyOS_InputHook` due to the wide range of ways that Matplotlib
```

is used.  This management is left to downstream libraries -- either
user code or the shell.  Interactive figures, even with matplotlib in
'interactive mode', may not work in the vanilla python repl if an
appropriate :c:var:`PyOS_InputHook` is not registered.

Input hooks, and helpers to install them, are usually included with
the python bindings for GUI toolkits and may be registered on import.
IPython also ships input hook functions for all of the GUI frameworks
Matplotlib supports which can be installed via ``%matplotlib``.  This
is the recommended method of integrating Matplotlib and a prompt.

IPython / prompt toolkit
------------------------

With IPython >= 5.0 IPython has changed from using cpython's readline
based prompt to a ``prompt_toolkit`` based prompt.  ``prompt_toolkit``

> has the same conceptual input hook, which is feed into prompt_toolkit via the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
has the same conceptual input hook, which is fed into ``prompt_toolkit`` via the
```

:meth:`IPython.terminal.interactiveshell.TerminalInteractiveShell.inputhook`

> method.  The source for the prompt_toolkit input hooks lives at

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
method.  The source for the ``prompt_toolkit`` input hooks lives at
```

For example, if you want to poll for data you could use something like ::

  fig, ax = plt.subplots()
  ln, = ax.plot([], [])

  while True:
      x, y = get_new_data()
      ln.set_data(x, y)
      fig.canvas.draw_idle()
      plt.pause(1)

which would poll for new data and update the figure at 1Hz.

.. _spin_event_loop:

Explicitly spinning the Event Loop
----------------------------------

.. autosummary::
   :template: autosummary.rst
   :nosignatures:

   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events
   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle

If you have open windows that have pending UI
events (mouse clicks, button presses, or draws) you can explicitly
process those events by calling `.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events`.
This will run the GUI event loop until all UI events currently waiting
have been processed.  The exact behavior is backend-dependent but
typically events on all figure are processed and only events waiting
to be processed (not those added during processing) will be handled.

For example ::

   import time
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
   import numpy as np
   plt.ion()

   fig, ax = plt.subplots()

>    fig.canvas.show()

Reviewer 3: This doesn't exist, and you have `ion` already.

Reviewer 3: Sorry, marked this resolved, but it isn't.

Author: I could have sworn I fixed that and pushed, :sheep:

Reviewer 3: As did I...

   th = np.linspace(0, 2*np.pi, 512)
   ax.set_ylim(-1.5, 1.5)

   ln, = ax.plot(th, np.sin(th))

   def slow_loop(N, ln):
       for j in range(N):
           time.sleep(.1)  # to simulate some work
           ln.figure.canvas.flush_events()

   slow_loop(100, ln)

While this will feel a bit laggy (as we are only processing user input

> every 100ms where as 20-30ms is what feels "responsive") it will

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
every 100ms whereas 20-30ms is what feels "responsive") it will
```

respond.

If you make changes to the plot and want it re-rendered you will need
to call `~.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` to request that the canvas be
re-drawn.  This method can be thought of *draw_soon* in analogy to
`asyncio.loop.call_soon`.

We can add this our example above as ::

   def slow_loop(N, ln):
       for j in range(N):
           time.sleep(.1)  # to simulate some work
           if j % 10:
               ln.set_ydata(np.sin(((j // 10) % 5 * th)))
               ln.figure.canvas.draw_idle()

           ln.figure.canvas.flush_events()

   slow_loop(100, ln)

The more frequently you call `.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events` the more
responsive your figure will feel but at the cost of spending more

> resource on the visualization and less on your computation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
resources on the visualization and less on your computation.
```

.. _stale_artists:

Stale Artists
=============

Artists (as of Matplotlib 1.5) have a **stale** attribute which is
`True` if the internal state of the artist has changed since the last

> time it was rendered. By default the stale state is propagated up to
> the Artists parents in the draw tree, thus if the color of a `.Line2D`
> instance is changed, the `.axes.Axes` and `.figure.Figure` it is
> contained in will also be marked as "stale".  Thus, ``fig.stale`` will
> report of any artist in the figure has been modified and out of sync

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
time it was rendered. By default the stale state is propagated up to
the Artists parents in the draw tree, e.g., if the color of a `.Line2D`
instance is changed, the `.axes.Axes` and `.figure.Figure` that
contain it will also be marked as "stale".  Thus, ``fig.stale`` will
report if any artist in the figure has been modified and is out of sync
```

with what is displayed on the screen.  This is intended to be used to
determine if ``draw_idle`` should be called to schedule a re-rendering
of the figure.

Each artist has a `.Artist.stale_callback` attribute which holds a callback
with the signature ::

  def callback(self: Artist, val: bool) -> None:
     ...

which by default is set to a function that forwards the stale state to

> the artists parent.   If you wish to suppress a given artist from propagating

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the artist's parent.   If you wish to suppress a given artist from propagating
```

set this attribute to None.

`.figure.Figure` instances do not have a containing artist and their
default callback is `None`.  If you call `.pyplot.ion` and are not in

> ``IPython`` we will install callback to invoke
> `~.backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` when ever the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
``IPython`` we will install a callback to invoke
`~.backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` whenever the
```

`.figure.Figure` becomes stale.  In ``IPython`` we use the
``'post_execute'`` hook to invoke
`~.backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` on any stale figures

> after having executed the users input, but before returning the prompt

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
after having executed the user's input, but before returning the prompt
```

to the user.  If you are not using `.pyplot` you can use the callback
`Figure.stale_callback` attribute to be notified when a figure has
become stale.

.. _draw_idle:

Draw Idle
=========

.. autosummary::
   :template: autosummary.rst
   :nosignatures:

   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw
   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle
   backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.flush_events

In almost all cases, we recommend using
`backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw_idle` over
`backend_bases.FigureCanvasBase.draw`.  ``draw`` forces a rendering of

> the figure where as ``draw_idle`` schedules a rendering the next time

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the figure whereas ``draw_idle`` schedules a rendering the next time
```

the GUI window is going to re-paint the screen.  This improves
performance by only rendering pixels that will be shown on the screen.  If
you want to be sure that the screen is updated as soon as possible do ::

  fig.canvas.draw_idle()
  fig.canvas.flush_events()

Threading
=========

Most GUI frameworks require that all updates to the screen, and hence
their main event loop, run on the main thread.  This makes pushing
periodic updates of a plot to a background thread impossible.
Although it seems backwards, it is typically easier to push your
computations to a background thread and periodically update
the figure on the main thread.

In general Matplotlib is not thread safe.  If you are going to update
`.Artist` objects in one thread and draw from another you should make
sure that you are locking in the critical sections.

> The Weeds

Reviewer 3: This could probably do with a more descriptive title.

IPython also ships input hook functions for all of the GUI frameworks
Matplotlib supports which can be installed via ``%matplotlib``.  This
is the recommended method of integrating Matplotlib and a prompt.

IPython / prompt toolkit
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

With IPython >= 5.0 IPython has changed from using cpython's readline
based prompt to a ``prompt_toolkit`` based prompt.  ``prompt_toolkit``
has the same conceptual input hook, which is feed into prompt_toolkit via the
:meth:`IPython.terminal.interactiveshell.TerminalInteractiveShell.inputhook`
method.  The source for the prompt_toolkit input hooks lives at
:mod:`IPython.terminal.pt_inputhooks`

.. rubric:: Footnotes

.. [#f1] A limitation of this design is that you can only wait for one
	 input, if there is a need to multiplex between multiple sources
	 then the loop would look something like ::

	   fds = [...]
           while True:                    # Loop
               inp = select(fds).read()   # Read
               eval(inp)                  # Evaluate / Print

.. [#f2] Or you can `write your own
         <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZzfHjytDceU>`__ if you must.

> .. [#f3] These examples are agressively dropping many of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. [#f3] These examples are aggressively dropping many of the
```

	 complexities that must be dealt with in the real world such as

> 	 keyboard interupts, timeouts, bad input, resource

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	 keyboard interrupts, timeouts, bad input, resource
```

.. _plotting-guide-interactive:

*******************
Interactive Figures
*******************

One of the most powerful uses of matplotlib is interactive
figures.  At the most basic matplotlib has the ability to zoom and pan
a figure to inspect your data, however there is also a full mouse and
keyboard event handling system to enable building sophisticated interactive
graphs.

This page is meant to be a rapid introduction to the relevant details of

> integrating the matplotlib with a GUI event loop.

Reviewer 4: Maybe add the reference: "For further details see: http://www.amazon.com/Interactive-Applications-using-Matplotlib-Benjamin/dp/1783988843?"

The GUI event loop
------------------

To handle asynchronous user input every GUI framework has an event
loop.  At the most basic this is a stack that can have events to be
processed.  In order for the GUI to be responsive this loop must be
run.  To manage this in python there are two basic methods:

1. let the GUI main loop block the python process
2. intermittently run the GUI loop for a period of time

Going with option 1 is going down the route of writing a bespoke GUI
application.  In this case, commonly refereed to as 'embedding', the
GUI event loop is running the show and you should not use the `pyplot`
layer.  Doing anything short of writing a full GUI application
requires option 2.

The python capi provides a hook, `PyOS_InputHook`, to register a
function to be run "The function will be called when Python's
interpreter prompt is about to become idle and wait for user input

> from the terminal.".  This hook can be used to integrate a second

Reviewer 5: Why "second event loop"? What would be the first event loop?

Author: The python prompt itself.

> event loop with the python repl.  Such a hooks are usually included

Reviewer 4: Such ~~a~~ hooks

with the python bindings for GUI toolkits and may be registered on
import.  IPython also includes hooks for all of the GUI frameworks
supported by matplotlib.  The hook functions typically exhaust
all pending events on the GUI event queue, run the main loop for a
short fixed amount of time, or run the event loop until a key is
pressed on stdin.

matplotlib does not currently do any management of `PyOS_InputHook`
due to the wide range of ways that matplotlib is used.  This
management is left to the code using matplotlib.  Interactive figures,
even with matplotlib in 'interactive mode', may not work in the
vanilla python repl if an appropriate `PyOS_InputHook` is not
registered.  We suggest using ``IPython``, which in addition to

> improving the command line, ensures that such a `PyOS_InptuHook`

Reviewer 6: (sp)

function is registered for you GUI backend of choice.

A drawback of relying on `PyOS_InputHook` is that the GUI event loop
is only processing events while python is otherwise idle and waiting
for user input.  If you want the GUI to be responsive during long
running code it is necessary to periodically flush the GUI event

> queue.  To achive this, almost all of the of the GUI-based ``Canvas``

Reviewer 5: achive --> achieve

classes provide a `flush_event` method.  By periodically calling this
method the GUI will be updated and appear to be responsive.

In both cases, to schedule a re-draw of the figure at some point in
the future use ``fig.canvas.draw_idle()``.  This will defer the actual

> rendering of the figure until the GUI is ready to update it's

Reviewer 4: it's -> its
